Updated min and max aggregations. (#9437)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/metric/minimum.md

# Minimum aggregations

The `min` metric is a single-value metric aggregations that returns the minimum value of a field.
The `min` metric is a single-value metric that returns the minimum value of a field.

> The following example calculates the minimum of the `taxful_total_price` field:

Author: ```suggestion
The `min` aggregation compares numeric fields using a `double` (double-precision) representation. Results should be considered approximate for fields containing `long` or `unsigned_long` integers with absolute values greater than 2<sup>53</sup> because the number of significant bits in a `double` mantissa is 53.
```

Author: @msfroh @kolchfa-aws How fine a point do we want to put on this? There are actually two cases of concern here:
1. `long` or `unsigned_long` fields where all values are above 2^53.
2. `long` fields with arbitrary values where some number of them are below -2^53.

> The `min` aggregation compares numeric fields using a `double` (double-precision) representation. Results should be considered approximate for fields containing only `long` or `unsigned_long` integer values greater than 2^53, since the number of significant bits in a `double` mantissa is 53.

Author: Even less likely than seeing this effect in `max`. (See above). Please comment.

Reviewer: This seems like a reasonable warning nonetheless. It could matter if you have very negative numbers.

I think if we include the warning on the max side it makes sense to mirror it on the min side.

Author: @msfroh Good point about the negative numbers. I was fixated on large positive numbers, probably because I included `unsigned_long`. But large negative `long` values would pose a problem as well.

> The `min` aggregation compares numeric fields using a `double` (double-precision) representation. Results should be considered approximate for fields containing only `long` or `unsigned_long` integer values greater than 2^53, since the number of significant bits in a `double` mantissa is 53.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `min` aggregation compares numeric fields using a `double` (double-precision) representation. Results should be considered approximate for fields containing only `long` or `unsigned_long` integer values greater than 2<sup>53</sup> because the number of significant bits in a `double` mantissa is 53.
```

> The `min` aggregation compares numeric fields using a `double` (double-precision) representation. Results should be considered approximate for fields containing only `long` or `unsigned_long` integer values greater than 2^53, since the number of significant bits in a `double` mantissa is 53.

Author: @msfroh @kolchfa-aws How fine a point do we want to put on this? There are actually two cases of concern here:

    long or unsigned_long fields where all values are above 2^53.
    long fields with arbitrary values where some number of them are below -2^53.

> The `min` aggregation compares numeric fields using a `double` (double-precision) representation. Results should be considered approximate for fields containing only `long` or `unsigned_long` integer values greater than 2^53, since the number of significant bits in a `double` mantissa is 53.

Reviewer 2: I think it's fine to leave as is. Absolute value takes care of the positive/negative, and the existence is called out so it takes care of some and all.

> The `min` aggregation compares numeric fields using a `double` (double-precision) representation. Results should be considered approximate for fields containing `long` or `unsigned_long` integers with absolute values greater than 2<sup>53</sup> because the number of significant bits in a `double` mantissa is 53.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `min` aggregation compares numeric fields using a `double` (double-precision) representation. Results should be considered to be approximate for fields containing `long` or `unsigned_long` integers with absolute values greater than 2<sup>53</sup> because the number of significant bits in a `double` mantissa is 53.
```

## Parameters

> The `min` aggregation takes the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `min` aggregation takes the following parameters.
```

| Parameter | Required/Optional | Data type      | Description |
| :--       | :--               | :--            | :--         |

> | `field`   | Required          | String         | Name of the field for which the minimum is computed.    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `field`   | Required          | String         | The name of the field for which the minimum is computed.    |
```

> | `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | Value to assign missing instances of the field. If not given, documents with missing values are omitted from the aggregation. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not given, documents with missing values are omitted from the aggregation. |
```

> | `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign missing instances of the field. If not given, documents with missing values are omitted from the aggregation. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `missing` | Optional          | Numeric        | The value to assign to missing instances of the field. If not provided, documents containing missing values are omitted from the aggregation. |
```

## Example

> This example finds the least expensive item --- the minimum value of the `base_unit_price` --- in the ecommerce sample data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example finds the least expensive item---the item with the minimum value of the `base_unit_price`---in the e-commerce sample data:
```

> This example finds the least expensive item---the item with the minimum value of the `base_unit_price`---in the e-commerce sample data:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This following example request finds the least expensive item---the item with the minimum value of the `base_unit_price`---in the OpenSearch Dashboards e-commerce sample data:
```

```json
GET opensearch_dashboards_sample_data_ecommerce/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "min_base_unit_price": {
      "min": {
        "field": "products.base_unit_price"
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Example response

> The response is as follows:

Reviewer 3: @dwelsch-esi Let's rewrite to include more context (what does the response demonstrate to the user?).

Author: ```suggestion
As shown in the following example response, the aggregation returns the minimum value of `products.base_unit_price`.
```

Reviewer 3: @dwelsch-esi Same

Author: ```suggestion
As shown in the following example response, the aggregation returns the minimum value of `products.base_unit_price`:
```

    "hits": []
  },
  "aggregations": {
    "min_base_unit_price": {
      "value": 5.98828125
    }
  }
}
```

> The aggregation name (`min_base_unit_price`) can be used as a key to retrieve the aggregation from the response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the aggregation name (`min_base_unit_price`) as a key to retrieve the aggregation from the response.
```

## Missing values

> You can assign a value to missing instances of the aggregated field. See [Missing aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/missing/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can assign a value to missing instances of the aggregated field. See [Missing aggregations]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/aggregations/bucket/missing/) for more information.
```

> Missing values are normally ignored by `min`. If you use `missing` to assign a value less than any existing value, `min` returns this replacement value as the minimum value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Missing values are normally ignored by `min`. If you use `missing` to assign a value lower than any existing value, `min` returns this replacement value as the minimum value.
```
